# Project Requirements

## Executive Summary

The website will be a back-end repository that features a dashboard of game statistics for the Virtual Gym exergame platform. The essential functionality of our product is to develop the necessary software to retrieve and store Virtual Gym’s game session logs in a central repository and analyze the data to extract indicators of an individual’s performance and progress. The users of the product will be the Virtual Gym software team and the users of the Virtual Gym platform to view their game statistics. The product will be used to store, analyze and view game session data in an easily accessible dashboard.

## Project Glossary

- **Games** - The six games provided by the Virtual Gym exergame: Bubbles, Balloons, Climbing, Flying Rings, Archery and Slice Saber.
> 1. **Bubbles** - A game where the player must stretch and use both hands to reach the in-game target bubbles.
> 2. **Balloons** - A game where the player uses the left hand to pop and the right hand to push the in-game target balloons around.
> 3. **Climbing** - A game where the player reaches and stretches to climb an in-game mountain.
> 4. **Flying RIngs** - A game where the player follows in-game flying rings while moving around the in-game environment.
> 5. **Archery** - A game where the player shoots at targets using a bow and arrow.
> 6. **Slice Saber** - A game where the player must slice in-game colored blocks with two in-game lightsabers in each hand.

- **Game session** - When the user plays a single round/match of an individual game 

- **Logs** - Session logs generated by the Virtual Gym exergame that is collected and stored locally in the Oculus device.

- **Prescription** - a log file that contains the editable settings of the games

- **Joint Speed** - The measured speed that the user’s joints are moving at while they are playing the games. Can be measured in a single point in time or as an average across a game session. Each joint’s speed value is calculated separately.

- **Target** - In-game entities that the users are motivated to come into contact or strike with during gameplay.

- **Hits** - When the user successfully comes into contact with one of the in-game targets during gameplay.

- **Misses** - When the user misses contact with one of the in-game targets during gameplay.

- **Administrators** - The client’s software team users that oversees the Virtual Gym platform.

- **Caretakers** - the user who will prescribe the games to the players or users

- **Players or Users** - The users that interact with and play the games provided in the Virtual Gym platform.

## User Stories
### US 1.0.1 - Web Access
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to access the application from a desktop browser, **so that** so that I can use the application from my computer.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Entering the given URL on a web browser directs the user to the correct application.
> 2. Selecting a link on the Virtual Gym website will direct the user to the correct application (May need to ask client).

### US 2.0.1 - Login
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to log in using google credentials, **so that** I can access the app.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Login as user with existing google credentials.
> 2. Login with incorrect credentials will not allow the user to continue.

### US 2.0.2 - Sign up
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to sign up, **so that** I can create an account to access the app.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Input a valid username, password and additional information (name, nickname, phone number, email) and be able to create an account. 
> 2. Input invalid or missing information will not allow the user to create an account (ie: already existing username or email).
> 3. Be able to input optional additional information such as phone number and/or address and be able to create an account regardless of whether it was filled out

### US 3.0.1 - Progress Dashboard
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to see a dashboard that shows my progress, **so that** I can see how well I played the games.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to see an overview of their game statistics after they have finished playing a session. 
> 2. The overview should contain: the session, the game name and the time spent on games using start and end timestamps.
> 3. Link between the session, game performance and functional mobility indicators.
> 4. User should be able to see dashboard visualizations of the game statistics as graphs, charts and or images.

### US 3.0.2 - View Time Spent on Game or Session
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to see the amount of time I spent on my game sessions, **so that** I can see how long I have played for.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to see the time spent as start and end timestamps. 
> 2. User should be able to see time spent for each game session.

### US 3.0.3 - Compare Progress
> **As** a User, **I want** to compare my game session data between different days and/or weeks, **so that** I can see how well I performed over a period of time

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to view their statistics from a current game session and a previous game session beside each other

### US 3.0.4 - Search Game Sessions
> **As** a caretaker or administrator, **I want** to be able to search my game sessions by date and/or player, **so that** I can find the game session I am looking for

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Caretaker or Administrator should be able to enter a date, player name and/or game name and the application should output the game sessions matching the search query

### US 3.0.5 - Filter Game Sessions
> **As** a caretaker or administrator, **I want** to be able to filter my game sessions by date and/or player, **so that** I can organize and find my game sessions

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. A filter option should be available that includes sorting by ascending or descending game sessions
> 2. A filter option should be available that can filter by date, player name and/or game played

### US 4.0.1 - Game Performance
> **As** a User, **I want** to see my game performance statistics for how well I performed in a game, **so that** I can see how I can improve.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to view the hits and misses per game session. 
> 2. Users should be able to see the average target time for each game session.

### US 4.0.2 - View Hits and Misses
> **As** a User, **I want** to be able to see the amount of hits and misses from my game sessions, **so that** I can see how well I touched the targets in the game.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to see the number of hits and misses on in-game targets as percentages and/or as numbers according to which game they have played.

### US 4.0.3 - Average target time
> **As** a User, **I want** to see the average time between a target appearing and a target being hit from my game sessions, **so that** I can see how fast I am hitting the targets.

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to see the the average time in seconds.

### 5.0.1 - Functional Mobility Indicators
> **As** a User, **I want** to see my functional mobility indicators **so that** I can view the statistics related to my joints

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to see individual joint speed at a specific point in time
> 2. Users should be able to see the average speed of individual joints
> 3. Users should be notified which areas they can improve or doing well at

### 6.0.1 - Personalize Statistics
> **As** a caretaker or administrator, **I want**  to be able to choose what statistics I want to see on my dashboard **so that** I can choose what I want to see

> **Acceptance Tests**

> 1. Users should be able to add statistics they would like to see
> 2. Users should be able to remove statistics they would not like to see


## MoSCoW
### Must Have
* US 2.0.1 - Login
* US 3.0.1 - Progress Dashboard
* US 3.0.2 - View Time Spent on Game or Session
* US 4.0.1 - Game Performance
* US 4.0.2 - View Hits and Misses
* US 4.0.3 - Average target time
* US 5.0.1 - Functional Mobility Indicators

### Should Have
* US 1.0.1 - Web Access
* US 3.0.3 - Compare Progress
* US 3.0.4 - Search Game Sessions
* US 3.0.5 - Filter Game Sessions
* US 2.0.2 - Sign up
* US 6.0.1 - Personalize Statistics

### Could Have
* None

### Would Like But Won't Get
* None

## Similar Products
* [MyFitnessPal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.myfitnesspal.android&hl=en_CA&gl=US)
    - Popular fitness application that shares some similarities with our application, namely, uses gamification to motivate users and also provides personalized and customizable dashboards for the users.
* [Strava](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/strava-run-ride-swim/id426826309)
    - Popular fitness application with an emphasis on collecting and analysing data, features various types of performance visualizations. Could be used as a point of reference for our dashboard visualizations. 
* [FitnessView](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fitnessview-activity-tracker/id1531983371)
    - IOS fitness application with a heavy emphasis on data visualization. Displays fitness data dashboard style. Could be used as a point of reference for our dashboard visualizations. 

*We have asked the client for other existing products that he would potentially want us to emulate or use as a reference point, he has not yet gotten back to us but we will update this section as soon as we hear back from him.*

## Open-source Projects
* [ForRunners](https://gitlab.com/brvier/ForRunners)
    - Open Source fitness mobile application used to improve running. Analyzes various aspects of the user's running data and compiles the statistics into visualizations. Visualizations could serve as inspiration for us, and we will also be able to see the underlying mechanisms of the dashboard functionality given the open source nature of the project.

*We have asked the client for other existing open source projects that he would potentially want us to emulate or use as a reference point, he has not yet gotten back to us but we will update this section as soon as we hear back from him.*

## Technical Resources
### Backend: Django, MongoDB
  * [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/)
  * [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/)
  * [MongoDB and Django integration](https://www.mongodb.com/compatibility/mongodb-and-django)
### Deployment:
  * [Heroku Dev Center](https://devcenter.heroku.com/)
  * [Deploying Python applications](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploying-python)
  * [React-Django-Heroku deployment tutorial](https://dev.to/mdrhmn/deploying-react-django-app-using-heroku-2gfa) (Same tech stack as our application)
### Frontend: Django or React (In progress)
  * [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/)
  * [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
  * [Django and React integration](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-connect-django-with-reactjs/)
### Resources provided by client
  * [GDD Virtual Gym Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ykg52mN2SQYWL8emf6SDrA9pC21I_vqSQ5G9nXMbx4s/)

 
 
